-*- Mode: org -*-

Dear IDP | IELTS,

I was supposed to take the standard IELTS test on Aug 13th, 2016 at 07:30 AM. I
registered online on Aug 3rd, 2016 via https://www.ielts.org (which eventually
redirects to https://my.ieltsessentials.com). However, due to the reasons
described in more details below, on the scheduled day I most probably went to
the wrong test venue. I didn't realize this until about 07:45 AM. At the end, I
did not take any test.

I will admit this is a mistake on my part and am not demanding a refund. But
please read on.

* REGISTRATION PROCESS

I started the registration process by going to www.ielts.org (see screenshot
link 1). Note that all website screenshots are taken on Aug 13th, 2016 between
around 8:00-09:00 AM when I am writing this email, but to the best of my
recollection they still show the same information as when I made the
registration on Aug 3rd.

    https://github.com/stevenharyanto/ielts-problem/blob/master/ielts1.png (IELTS homepage)

I then hovered to the "Book a test" link, then clicked the "Find a location"
link. The page then showed the module selection (screenshot link 2):

    https://github.com/stevenharyanto/ielts-problem/blob/master/ielts2.png (module selection)

I selected "IELTS". The page now scrolled to show the country selection field (screenshot link 3)

    https://github.com/stevenharyanto/ielts-problem/blob/master/ielts3.png (country selection)

I picked "Indonesia" from the list and the page now showed city selection. I
picked "Jakarta Selatan" (south Jakarta) from the list, which is where I wanted
to take the test. The page now showed a single choice link: "IDP Education - ILP
Pancoran" (screenshot link 4):

    https://github.com/stevenharyanto/ielts-problem/blob/master/ielts4.png (IDP Education - ILP Pancoran)

I was not previously familiar with the IDP nor ILP organization, and at this
time I thought maybe they are the same or related in some way. When I clicked
the "IDP Education - ILP Pancoran" link, what shown was like in screenshot link
5:

    https://github.com/stevenharyanto/ielts-problem/blob/master/ielts5.png (Address of IDP Education - ILP Pancoran)

Okay, I thought. IDP and ILP are definitely related or share an office or
something, because the physical address is for ILP Pancoran, and the email
address contains "ilp" but the website URL contains "idp".

I was then brought to the page to choose the test center and test venue again
(screenshot link 6, red marking is mine). I didn't take notice of the fact that
"test center" and "test venue" are separate/different, until today. I selected
again the "IDP Education - South Jakarta" and the date that I wanted (note that
the screenshot link now showed Aug 20th because I made this screenshot today;
when I made the original registration it was Aug 13th).

    https://github.com/stevenharyanto/ielts-problem/blob/master/ielts6.png (test center/venue selection)

At this time I thought that the test would still be conducted at "ILP Pancoran"
at the "Jl Raya Pasar Minggu No. 39A" address because the test center/venue
selection page doesn't show any physical address. The next page (screenshot
link 7) doesn't either.

    https://github.com/stevenharyanto/ielts-problem/blob/master/ielts7.png (personal information form)

* EMAILS FROM IELTS

After I finished the registration and made the online payment, there are a total
of two emails that I received (screenshot link 8 shows my Gmail inbox, red
marking mine):

    https://github.com/stevenharyanto/ielts-problem/blob/master/ielts8.png (my Gmail inbox)

One email contains login information to the IELTS account, while the other is
about payment confirmation. The latter email does contain this statement "Please
check your test venue again in your registration account to ensure where you
take the test and find below some important requirements about the test" but the
email does not include the physical address. The email did mention an address
but for another IDP: "IDP - Pondok Indah".

A full copy of these emails (sensitive information redacted) can be downloaded at:

    https://github.com/stevenharyanto/ielts-problem/blob/master/email-from-ielts-1.txt
    https://github.com/stevenharyanto/ielts-problem/blob/master/email-from-ielts-1.plaintext.txt
    https://github.com/stevenharyanto/ielts-problem/blob/master/email-from-ielts-2.txt
    https://github.com/stevenharyanto/ielts-problem/blob/master/email-from-ielts-2.plaintext.txt

My mistake was not checking the test venue again, thinking that it must be at
"ILP Pancoran, Jl Raya Pasar Minggu No. 39A" as shown previously on the website.

* ON THE DAY OF THE TEST

I went to ILP Pancoran at Jl Pasar Minggu No. 39A and arrived at around 7:25 AM.
There were nobody inside the building except a cleaning service staff and
another staff. I asked them both about where to register for the test but they
were not very informed about any IELTS test being scheduled to be conducted at
that day and suggested that I waited until 09:00 AM. After around 07:35 AM and
still without any sign of anybody else coming, I started to suspect there might
be something wrong. So I checked my Gmail inbox and re-read the emails. Then I
logged in to the IELTS account page to check the venue.

The account page still does not clearly display any physical address of the test
venue (see screenshot link 9 and 10). There is no street address except a
couple of phone numbers. I called all the mentioned phone numbers (021-7262335
and 021-7264055) and at that time nobody answered the phone.

    https://github.com/stevenharyanto/ielts-problem/blob/master/ielts9.png (IELTS account page)
    https://github.com/stevenharyanto/ielts-problem/blob/master/ielts10.png (IELTS account page)

Finally I tried doing a Google search for "IELTS Test Centre ID017" and got a
PDF result from Google (see screenshot link 11).

    https://github.com/stevenharyanto/ielts-problem/blob/master/ielts11.png (Google result for "IELTS Test Centre ID017")

The copy of the PDF is at:

    https://github.com/stevenharyanto/ielts-problem/blob/master/copy.pdf

To be honest, when I read the PDF document, I *still* am not sure where the
venue is supposed to be. Or if "IDP - South Jakarta" and "IDP Pondok Indah" are
the same thing and the designated "ID017". This fact is not clearly stated in
the document. The document says: "Thank you for registering your IELTS Test at
ID017 - IDP South Jakarta". So I am assuming the particular "IDP" that I should
be visiting is "IDP South Jakarta" and if you recall from screenshot links 5 and
6, "IDP Education - South Jakarta" seems to be associated with "IDP Education -
ILP Pancoran" which is what I selected during registration.

The PDF document then proceeds to talk about "IDP Pondok Indah" without
explicitly stating that it is the same as "IDP South Jakarta".

At this time I have to assume that the test venue is "IDP Pondok Indah" which is
at "Raffles International Christian School, Jl Gedung Hijau Raya I no 1, Pondok
Indah, Jakarta Selatan", because there is only this address and one other for
the speaking test. The other address for the speaking test is at "IDP IELTS
South Jakarta" which is at "Plaza 5 Pondok Indah Blok D19, Jl Margaguna Raya,
Jakarta Selatan" and the speaking test is to be conducted at 1 PM.

I had a thought of immediately going outside of the ILP Pancoran building and
hailed a taxi to take me to Raffles International Christian School, but this
statement that I read from the same PDF document prevented me from doing so: "3.
All Candidates must arrive at the test venue at 7.30am for registration (except
for IELTS Life Skills test). You will not be permitted to sit for the test if
you arrive late, and your test fee will not be refunded." By this time, it is
already past 7:30 AM and the journey from Pasar Minggu to Pondok Indah would
probably take at least 30-45 minutes. So I gave up and went home. I did try to
call the phone numbers again, but failed to reach a human.

* CONCLUSION

I realized that my main mistake was not calling the phone number to ask for the
exact correct address before the day of the test. Before I am supposed to take
this IELTS test on Aug 13th, I also recently took GRE on Jul 28th and TOEFL iBT
on July 30th. The registrations for both of these tests are also online via the
www.ets.org website and I did not experience any confusion about the test venue.
At all times during the registration process and in the email sent after the
registration, the physical address of the test venue was clearly shown and was
exactly the address which I chose. I did not have to call any phone number
before the day of the tests and just showed up at the designated time and the
tests were conducted successfully.

I don't know how many other people beside me faced this confusion about the test
venue and how many also failed to show up at the right venue. But from what I
can see, there are some serious usability issues in the online registration
process. Mainly:

1) the confusion between these places:

    "IDP Education - ILP Pancoran"
    "IDP South Jakarta" (which is supposed to be ID017)
    "IDP Pondok Indah"
    "IDP IELTS South Jakarta"

   The confusion in small variations of the titles is exacerbated by not
   qualifying the place with the exact address. It would really be helpful if
   anywhere an IDP branch/location is mentioned, an address follows.

2) The name and address of "ILP Pancoran" should never have been displayed at
   all during the registration, because the registration is online and does not
   involve any visit to this place. This is a major source of confusion and
   misguiding. I initially selected and hoped that this will be the test venue
   because this place is by far the closest to me. I can argue that I am fooled
   by the registration process.

3) The physical address of ID017 should be clearly displayed during the
   registration process, ideally before the registrant confirms the venue.

As I said in the beginning of this email, I realized my mistake and am not
demanding a refund because the rule has been clearly stated. However, if there
could be a reconsideration for this case, I would most appreciate it.

If you need more information or want to contact me for further details, I can be
contacted at:

    Steven Haryanto
    stevenharyanto@gmail.com
    +6281906617777

or at the postal address which I entered during the registration.

This email is sent to ielts.indonesia@idp.com and ielts.ilp@gmail.com. I also
submitted a feedback from the IELTS account page. I hope to get a response for
this email.

A copy of this email is also put at:

    https://github.com/stevenharyanto/ielts-problem/blob/master/email-by-steven.pdf

Regards,
Steven Haryanto
